# No. 1 - The Immutability of God

> "I am the Lord, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed." - Malachi 3:6

We have set before us the doctrine of the immutability of God. All creatures change but God is perpetually the same. When Christ did gird himself with mortal clay, the essence of his divinity was not changed; flesh did not become God, nor did God become flesh by a real actual change of nature; the two were united in hypostatical union, but the Godhead was still the same. He changes not in his attributes. He is unchanged in his wisdom, he knows as much now as ever. Every man has his plan, and God has a plan too. The gospel is not "yea and nay," but the gospel is "yea, yea," to the glory of God. Therefore, at his feet cast yourself, and rest there forever. I will tell you of a decree: "He that believeth not shall be damned." That is a decree that can never change; you cannot alter it. You must believe or be damned, saith the Bible; and mark, that threat of God is an unchangeable as God himself. I will now try to prove that He is unchangeable. The very existence, and being of a God imply immutability. There is a God; this God rules and governs all things. I believe God to be a perfect being. Now, if he is a perfect being, he cannot change. Again, there is the fact of God's infinity, which puts change out of the question. God is an infinite being. Now, who are "the sons of Jacob," who can rejoice in an immutable God? They are the sons of God's election and were men of peculiar manifestations. They have talked with God as a man talketh with his friend; Christ hath been with them to sup with them, and they with Christ; and the Holy Spirit hath shone into their souls with such a mighty radiance, that they could not doubt about special manifestations. They are men of peculiar character; for though there were some things about Jacob's character which we cannot commend, there are one or two things which God commends. There was Jacob's faith, by which Jacob had his name written amongst the mighty worthies who obtained not the promises on earth, but shall obtain them in heaven. Is faith the rule of your life? if so, you are the "sons of Jacob." Then Jacob was a man of prayer. Sons of God cannot live without prayer. They are men in whom the Holy Ghost so works, they can no more live without prayer than I can live without breathing. They must pray. Sirs, mark you, if you are living without prayer, you are living without Christ. But you who are "the sons of Jacob," take comfort, for God is immutable. I can say only a word about the other point on the benefit which these "Sons of Jacob" receive from an unchanging God. "Consumed?" How? how can man be consumed? We might have been consumed in hell. But there is a way of being consumed in this world; there is such a things as being condemned before you die; there is such a thing as being alive, and yet being absolutely dead. I have been pushed alone, dragged as by an awful satanic power to the very edge of some horrid precipice. I have looked down, down, down, and seen my portion; I quivered on the brink of ruin. I have been horrified, as, with my hair upright, I have thought of the sin I was about to commit, the horrible pit into which I was about to fall. A strong arm hath saved me. I have started back and cried, O God! Yes, I am here, unconsumed, because the Lord changes not. Oh! if he had changed, we should have been consumed in a dozen ways; if the Lord had changed, you and I should have been consumed by ourselves; for after all, Mr. Self is the worst enemy a Christian has. Well, now, time fails us, and I can say but little. I have only just cursorily touched on the text. I now hand it to you. May the Lord help you "sons of Jacob" to take home this portion of meat; digest it well, and feed upon it. May the Holy Ghost sweetly apply the glorious things that are written! Remember God is the same. Your friends may be disaffected, your ministers may be taken away, every thing may change, but God does not. Your brethren may change and cast out your name as vile: but God will love you still. 
